== Usage ==

<code><nowiki>{{InlineDateTime}}</nowiki></code> (or the short alias <code><nowiki>{{InlineDateTime}}</nowiki></code>) displays an inline datetime or date range with automatic timezone conversion for the reader. Times are shown with a tooltip providing conversions to the reader's local time and/or server times.

=== Parameters ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Parameter !! Required !! Description
|-
| <code>start</code> or <code>1</code> || Yes || Start datetime in <code>YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM</code> format. Append a UTC offset (<code>+8</code>, <code>-5</code>, <code>+05:30</code>, <code>UTC+8</code>, <code>GMT-5</code>) for absolute times. Omit the offset for server time.
|-
| <code>end</code> or <code>2</code> || No || End datetime, same format as start. If the date matches start, only the time portion is shown in the fallback display.
|-
| <code>server</code> || No || Restrict tooltip to a specific server: <code>asia</code> or <code>americas</code>. Omit to show both.
|-
| <code>raw</code> || No || Raw display text override. The original text is shown as-is; <code>start</code>/<code>end</code> are still used for tooltip calculations.
|}

=== Timezone behavior ===

* '''No offset''' (<code>start=2026-03-12 12:00</code>): Treated as server time. The same wall-clock time applies to each server independently. Tooltip shows the reader's local time for each server.
* '''With offset''' (<code>start=2026-03-12 06:00 +8</code>): Treated as an absolute moment. Inline display shows the reader's local time (with their timezone abbreviation). Tooltip shows each server's local time.
* Start and end can have different timezone types (e.g., absolute start, server-relative end).

=== Server definitions ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Server !! UTC Offset !! Notes
|-
| Asia || UTC+8 || Fixed offset, no DST
|-
| Americas / Europe || UTC-5 || Fixed offset, no DST (EST year-round)
|}

=== Examples ===

'''Server time range (most common):'''
<pre>{{InlineDateTime|start=2026-03-12 12:00|end=2026-03-29 12:00}}</pre>
What it looks like: {{InlineDateTime|start=2026-03-12 12:00|end=2026-03-29 12:00}}

'''Absolute time (maintenance window):'''
<pre>{{InlineDateTime|start=2026-03-12 06:00 +8|end=2026-03-12 12:00 +8}}</pre>

'''Single point in time:'''
<pre>{{InlineDateTime|start=2026-03-12 12:00}}</pre>

'''With server filter:'''
<pre>{{InlineDateTime|start=2026-03-12 06:00 +8|end=2026-03-12 12:00 +8|server=asia}}</pre>

'''With raw text (for dev notes):'''
<pre>{{InlineDateTime|start=2026-03-12 06:00 +8|end=2026-03-12 12:00 +8|raw=Mar. 12, 2026 at 06:00 - Mar. 12, 2026 at 12:00 (UTC+8)}}</pre>

The short alias <code><nowiki>{{IDT}}</nowiki></code> works identically if installed.

=== No-JavaScript fallback ===

Without JavaScript, the template displays dates in a readable format with the timezone context (either the UTC offset or "server time"). Tooltips are not available without JavaScript.

=== Error handling ===

If <code>start</code> is missing or blank, the template renders a visible hard error in red. If <code>start</code> or <code>end</code> is present but cannot be parsed, a soft error is shown with the original text instead. Both states add the page to [[:Category:Pages with InlineDateTime errors]] for editor review.

[[Category:InlineDateTime templates]]
